# My-Projects
Repository contain my Data Analysis And Machine Learning Projects for an understanding of the process,Presented in the form of iPython Notebooks.
## Contents
* **Machine Learning**

  - Predicting Boston Housing Prices: A model to predict the value of a given house in the Boston real estate market using various statistical analysis tools. Identified the best     price that a client can sell their house utilizing machine learning.
  
  - Supervised Learning: Finding Donors for CharityML: Testing out several different supervised learning algorithms to build a model that accurately predicts whether an individual     makes more than $50,000, to identify likely donors for a fictional non-profit organisation.
  
  - Unsupervised Learning: Creating Customer Segments: Analyzing a dataset containing data on various customers' annual spending amounts (reported in monetary units) of diverse       product categories for discovering internal structure, patterns and knowledge.
  

  - Deep Learning: Digit Sequence Recognition using CNNs: Designing and implementing a Convolutional Neural Network that learns to recognize sequences of digits using synthetic       data generated by concatenating images from MNIST.
  
Tools: scikit-learn, Pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib, Pygame

* Natural Language Processing
  - 3-way Sentiment Analysis for Tweets: 3-way polarity (positive, negative, neutral) classification system for tweets, without using NLTK's sentiment analysis engine.

  -  Cross language Information Retrieval: Cross language information retrieval system (CLIR) which, given a query in German, searches text documents written in English.

Tools: NLTK, scikit

* Data Analysis and Visualisation

  - Scalable Walkability Analysis of Melbourne: Analysis of walkability of suburbs in Melbourne, Victoria and its implications.
  - Titanic Dataset - Exploratory Analysis: Exploratory Analysis of the passengers onboard RMS Titanic using Pandas and Seaborn visualisations.
  - Stock Market Analysis for Tech Stocks: Analysis of technology stocks including change in price over time, daily returns, and stock behaviour prediction.
  -  2016 US General Election Poll Data Analysis: Very simple analysis of 2016 US General Election Poll data.
  -  911 Calls - Exploratory Analysis: Exploratory Data Analysis of the 911 calls dataset hosted on Kaggle. Demonstrates extraction of useful features from different variables.
  
Tools: Pandas, Folium, Seaborn and Matplotlib

* Micro Projects:
  - ML with Logistic Regression: Using Logistic Regression to predict whether an internet user clicked an ad or not.
  - ML with K Nearest Neighbours: Using KNN to classify instances from a fake dataset into two target classes, while choosing the best value for K using the elbow method.
  - ML with Decision Trees and Random Forests: Using Decision Trees and Random Forests to predict whether a lender will pay their loan back. Uses publically available data from     LendingClub.com
  - Movie Recommendations using Recommender Systems: A micro project to build a recommendation system that makes movie recommendations based on user review similarities.

